Once people were convinced that I look
like I knew what I was doing as an
actor, then I knew we were in good
shape. And so, we hired somebody who
[music] doubled my hands, who was really
good at chopping.
Hey, what do you say, man?
That was one of those where we didn't
have a lot of time. Um Doug Liman, who
was the director, also was operating the
camera and the cinematographer. He he
you know, we were all early days of our
careers and we all were doing a lot and
pulling it together. And of course,
Vince Vaughn was there co-starring and
was a big part of us, the heart and soul
of that film. And the shot I think about
was one where we enter into the Derby
and we were all such fans of Scorsese
and Tarantino and our characters are
talking that way, too. We were supposed
to enter the Derby through the door. And
as we're getting ready to film, we were
being you know, go going backstage
through the kitchen and stuff and we're
like, "Could we just do the shot like in
Goodfellas where we go through the
kitchen? That would be really cool." And
we talk about that shot and then we
really do it.
How you doing, Anna? Good to see you.
I'll see you soon, all right?
Thanks, everybody.
Now of course, the shot in real life
from the from the Copacabana took a long
time to light and there was a lot of
complexity to it. And Larry McConkey was
a brain that you know, the legend has it
was operating the steady cam. And they
had to do all this choreography. Us, we
did the just it was a handheld shot and
and and Doug just had everybody swap
bulbs out. But I still the concept was
good enough that even though as raw as
the film was and how rough it was in the
way it was executed, it would get a
laugh. That that shot would get a laugh.
And and then we were moving through the
entire kitchen. And we were able to pull
it off even though the idea just
occurred to us a few moments earlier.
>> [music]
>> Number three.
Bob Newhart's narrating talking about
Buddy the Elf Elf has arrived in the
North Pole as a human and then slowly
was growing too much and then finally
becomes, you know, Will Ferrell as as
Buddy. And so, we used a lot of forced
perspective, right? Which is a very
low-tech analog way to create a
difference in scale between two
different characters. We were looking at
films Lord of the Rings had used some
some of it. I was reading like Cinefex
magazine how they were doing it. Talked
to Joe Bauer uh visual effects
supervisor, Greg Gardner DP, trying to
figure all this stuff out ahead of time
with charts. How to do these shots, how
to build the sets, cuz what you do is
you build a small set that's closer to
camera and a bigger set further away.
You line them up, you put the character
that's supposed to be little in the big
set further back and you put the person
who's supposed to be big up close in the
smaller set up close and then you line
them up with the lighting and
everything. And there was a shot where
he is sitting on Papa Elf's lap and he's
like a toddler. And my son was 1 years
old and we had him we got him a little
elf suit and so he's sitting on the lap
of Papa Elf as Buddy in a little elf
costume. Though a Buddy grew twice as
fast, he We had a kid's legs underneath
so they lined up with in scale and then
you had Bob Newhart much further back
looking over his shoulder as though he's
sitting on his lap. And then the other
interesting thing was we really got
fancy because
uh we had a fireplace and fire something
that doesn't scale. So, we had to have a
small fireplace up close with normal
scale fire that lined up with a set
that's much further back. Because if you
put the fire all the way back there, it
would you would you would know that the
scale is off. So, water and fire, you
know, if you look at stop motion films
where they're using miniatures, you'll
see they'll often slow down like in the
they'll slow the water down. Now, of
course, we have simulations and things.
It's very easy to do digitally, but at
the time it was very difficult. But so
we use those old techniques. So So it's
a it's a pretty technical shot, but it's
also a snap like a like a family album
of my son. And he was falling asleep,
and we had to get him to look towards
camera. He was too little to take
direction. And then we all just got
behind camera and just saying happy
birthday to him, even though it wasn't
his birthday, and he sparked up and
looked up and smiled. So it took every
technical tricks and also parenting
tricks to make that come together. So
whenever that shot pops up, I smile cuz
it's Everybody in my family does cuz
it's like a a home a home movie.
There's a few shots, but one of the
things is that's fun to talk about is
when Pepper Potts reaches into Tony
Stark's chest to switch out his RT. Oh.
Oh, there's
pus. It's not pus. It's an
plasmic discharge. It's from the device,
not from my body. It smells. Yeah.
I like that because again, it's like
when a lot of different factors come
together and the scene ends up working,
right? So very technical scene because
we had Robert Downey Jr. who had to be
sitting upright. He's He's He's 45° on
an operating bench, and she's reaching
into this um like socket that we built
that would be sitting in his chest to
swap out his power source, the the RT.
And he's about He's doing it alone, and
she walks in. She straight face says, "I
need your help, Pepper. Could you pull
that out and do it?" And there's wires
attached. And then we also had the
improvisation. So I made sure I I was
able to have two cameras. So I got both
of their close-ups at the same time. So
if they improvised, they had such great
chemistry together that we could cut it
together when no matter what they did or
what they said. And then to make it even
more interesting, as she's reaching down
into it, we filled it with like a gel so
that there was like some sort of uh
weird gross side I don't know what How
do we justify it that there was
something that came from the biological
aspect of it that it was like seeping
in, so it just made her make faces and
have to pull It was all sorts of slime
on her hand. So, I as a director, when I
see all those things come together, it
makes it a scene that I'm I'm
particularly proud of.
>> [music]
>> If we could show him really good in the
kitchen in the opening credits of of as
a really good cook, it would justify why
people thought so much of him and why it
was so difficult for him to be in the
situation he was as a working for
somebody else and not feeling fulfilled
and that he was somebody who was of
tremendous promise earlier. Once people
were convinced that I look like I knew
what I was doing as an actor, then I
knew we're in good shape and so we hired
somebody who doubled my hands, who was
really good at chopping, really fast and
really precise. And we filmed his hands
and tilted up to his face and then I
went in and chopped and we tilted, same
camera move, tilted from my hands up to
my face and we stitched the shot. And
so, it looks like I'm an amazing amazing
chef with amazing knife knife skills and
and that cuz you go to my face and so
it's like, oh, it's done.
>> [music]
>> And chefs have said, I know that what I
know it was really you cuz I saw the
shot. And I was like,
if you do it once right, and that's a
big lesson in in in storytelling and
filmmaking is like, it does come from
magic. Like that's what the tradition of
cinema is. It comes from illusionists,
it comes from people doing gags, it
comes from George Méliès. Those weren't
novelists who became filmmakers, they
were illusionists who used the trick
camera tricks to further their
performance, right? So, that's still the
underpinning of all of it. And if you
get the magic trick right, you tell the
story better. Whether it's a card shark
tricking people or a magician who's up
front about that, there's a lot of story
that goes on and the trick reinforces
the story. But if you could have fooled
the audience with an illusion, they'll
come along for the ride. And like that's
why Ricky Jay was always so great to
watch as a performer because he was a
great raconteur. And then this trick
which the slight of hand would support
it. And so when we do all these visual
effects, these are just a version of a
slight of hand that we do to help sell
the story and help the audience feel
what you want them to feel. And that
little moment actually helped a lot with
the rest of the film.
So there's not a shot in The Lion King
that that as much as a sequence that I
was particularly proud of cuz we that we
we were we were drawing upon a animated
film that was spectacular that people
especially at certain age generations of
people really feel very connected to. So
we're very limited how much
liberty we could take with that story
because people are so connected to the
original animated film. But one of the
areas where we we took some liberties
was is a sequence where Rafiki is aware
that Simba is still alive. And what
happens in the animated film, I think
though it implies that the wind blows
some fur or something that but the scent
of Simba arrives at Rafiki. And Rafiki
smells it and declares that he's alive
and we know that there's hope that he's
going to return after he had the whole
Hakuna Matata thing when he spent time
away thinking that he might be dead or
an exile, they didn't know. And he
ultimately returns as an adult to to set
things right. In this, we did something
that was I I thought very charming which
was we took the Simba's little little
lock of his fur and then moved it
through the whole ecology of the whole
African ecology going from ants carrying
it around where it's moving along a
river and then I think even a dung
beetle pushing it. And so it's almost
like it's carried by fate and by nature
to arrive at Rafiki until he finally
sees it and declares it. Simba.
And I thought it was a really all the
artists and the imagination and the
storyboard artists, the story
department, we really had a lot of fun
with it. And I think that with Han
Zimmer's music, it felt like it it fit
into this movie even though it was
something that was newly explored and
discovered.
>> [music]
>> There's a sequence where the Mandalorian
is infiltrating a
he have like a row of AT-ATs going
through the snowy mountains like
Hannibal's elephants. And the
Mandalorian has to one by one remove the
threat and hunt down the quarry that
he's looking for. And we have a shot
where the Mandalorian, in this case
played by Lateef Crowder, who's a
capoeira martial artist who's been with
us since the beginning, one of the
people that is in the helmet for
different sequences, we have different
people in in the costume. And he's done
wonderful work from the beginning with
his kicks and spins and all that
movement and just the performance as
just as a performer has been great. But
we've never had the time to choreograph
something as complex as a long what what
I want it to be a one-er that took us
all the way from entering the back of
the interior of the AT-AT all the way
through to the cockpit.
We missed him. He's under us. We have
him.
Fire.
So it was designing that shot and I was
by the way Peter Ramsey, second unit
director, working with him on the shot
as well. And we worked out the
choreography with all the snow troopers
who were in there and we set it up like
they're getting ready to go out and he
kicks in the back door. So on the one
hand I love it because of the
choreography. I love it because I got to
work with Peter on the set. I love it
because we built the inside of an AT-AT,
that's something we couldn't have done
on the show, and had it moving with
everything swinging around like you were
inside like a pirate ship with all the
nets of cargo. And then also we we
remember the head has to move
independently of the body cuz it's
constantly panning back and forth. So,
we had to make a head that moved
independently of that and then have high
ceilings and then have all the visual
effects that came into it, too, because
he's using his the blaster, which has a
report, and also the flamethrower. That
sequence to me is fun, and then a little
bit Göransson's music and percussion
just rips through it. So, again, when
multiple departments, multiple creatives
all come together and have a sequence
that's like gets you has impact as an
audience member, that's that's the most
rewarding.
>> [music]
>> It's got to be a Scorsese shot. Although
the Coen brothers are always fun to look
at some great stuff in Miller's Crossing
I could think of, but well, I got to go
with Marty. He's in our movie, too. He's
a hero. He's a idol for filmmakers. You
got to go with the Larry McConkey
Goodfellas
through the kitchen ending on Henny
Youngman saying, "Take my wife, please."
It tells a great story. It's flashy.
It's funny. And you get to you learn
about the It's a story point, too. So,
it it treats that shot like a set piece.
So, a set piece is something that's
that's memorable, but you should ideally
you're you're this character
progression. If there's a song in a
musical, if there's a boxing match in a
boxing movie, or a game in a football
movie, something has to change in the
story. And she learns who he is in that
shot. And he says, "I'm in [music]
construction" at the end, and she knows
what she's getting herself into in this
relationship.